Welcome back let's talk about a topic in type called type assertions now type assertions anti-spy antismoker
allows you to override a type in any way you want.
And this is done through this mechanism type assertion in plain English.
It's simply saying Hey transcript compiler.
Calm down.
I know what I'm doing.
This is the type that I want.
Don't worry about anything or second guessing me or printing out or Knerr.
I got this.
I'll tell you what kind of type it has.
So let me demonstrate for you what it would look like if we go back up to here with the robot army that
we had and I copy this robot army instead of robot army.
I'll call it let's say
a cat army.
Let's say that we're creating a object.
Let's call it let dog.
He called to an empty object if I tried to access dog.
Does that count.
And I save I'll get an air count does not exist on type empty object.
But if I do something call type perception and let's just comment this.
So we have a nice reference for it.
If I do this I can say empty object as
Army.
And if I see if you're well look at that.
No errors.
I'm saying Hey dog.
I'm telling you that.
Don't worry about it.
This is a cat Army regardless of the fact that dog actually doesn't have Dog Duck count.
I'm overriding whatever air you're going to give me and telling you that.
Trust me this is the cat army.
And obviously this is very dangerous and it's something that you want to be really careful about using.
But there are cases that we'll see when you might want to use this.
So typescript allows us to do this type of assertion
by the way.
You might be thinking to yourself what happens if maybe the robot army sometimes has magic sometimes
it doesn't.
This is an optional property that not all robot army objects have.
What can we do.
Well we can just simply say questionmark and now questionmark says this may or may not be part of the
object if we do fight robot army with an object that is count of one and type of dragon.
A dragon robot army and I save and I made sure that I have this array over here.
Everything still works because I have this question mark.
We may or may not get the magic property but count and type do need to happen.
If I remove this and I save I get an error it's expecting a magic property.
All right I'll see in the next one.